---

copyright:
  years: 2015, 2017
lastupdated: "2017-11-07"

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}


# Alert generation in Availability Monitoring
{: #avmon_alert_desc}

In {{site.data.keyword.prf_hubshort}}, tests can generate up to a total of three alerts. Your test reports the alert with the highest severity until the condition causing the alert is resolved.
{: shortdesc}

A separate alert is raised for three different situations:

-   When the response time of your web application or URL exceeds the warning or critical thresholds set for your test. Every test measures response time by default and raises an alert based on the warning and critical thresholds for that test.
-   When your test returns a HTTP response code that indicates that your web application or URL is unavailable due to a client or server error. Every test checks for the response code by default, to determine whether the test is successful or fails.
-   When your test determines that one or more customized conditions are satisfied, an alarm is raised with the highest severity as defined by one or more of your customized conditions. {{site.data.keyword.prf_hubshort}} considers all customized conditions in aggregate when determining whether an alarm is raised. This alarm remains until your test determines that all of your customized conditions no longer generate any warning or critical alerts.

When more than one alert is raised, {{site.data.keyword.prf_hubshort}} will report the alert with the highest severity as long as any alerts are present.

For example, if your test response time raises a warning alert and another condition raises a warning alert, a critical alert is generated by your test and appears on the {{site.data.keyword.prf_hubshort}} dashboard. If the condition that causes a critical alert is no longer true, then the severity of your test alert changes to "Warning". An alert remains until all conditions no longer cause an alert.
